Now this course is not going to be heavy CI/CD.
We're not learning how to build CI systems here
or do Continuous Deployment.
That is really not anything Node specific.
Those things just work the way they work with all Docker
images and containers.
Again, I've got to give you some tips because I see so many
people out there working on projects and
learning the hard way like I had to do years ago.
I want to give you some of my experience.
Here's some quick hit items that you want to check on
if you're working on CI and CD solutions with your Node
apps. Or really any apps.
Ideally, you have something set
up so that these images, at least on some branches,
maybe the master branch, maybe like a staging branch, at
least some of the major branches, if not all branches, are
automatically building, testing, and then
uploading your images into an image registry of some kind.
That can be anywhere on a cloud, that could be using Docker
Hub, that could be using private stuff inside your data
center. It doesn't really matter.
But, the key is the automation there because you don't want
to need a developer to have to build and test these images
locally before they upload into a registry.
That's just a lot of work, and it puts a lot of burden
on people and there's a lot of chance for mistakes there.
Of course, as a part of this, you're testing, you're
scanning, you're doing all these things in the image.
But, you don't want to push those images to a registry
unless all that stuff passes.
So, you want to wait for the flying colors before images
show up inside of your Hub registry,
or whatever registry you're using.
Imagine that registry as being the official,
certified passing of your CI solution.
You might even consider, as a part of your workflow inside
of your Continuous Integration system, to do linting
on the Dockerfile and the Compose file themselves.
Maybe do a YAML linter on the Compose.
Maybe do a Docker linting.
I've given you links in the resources for this
video so that you can find some of those popular choices
there for that. This would be stuff outside of the
Dockerfile because it's actually checking the Dockerfile
and the Compose files themselves.
If you're going to use Docker Compose NCI,
which is fine to do, because it would be great to use
Docker Compose to set up all that stuff for your functional
testing, anything that you need a database, or
full, front-to-back end solution for, it
would be great to have Docker Compose to set all that up
for you. But you've got to be wary of exit codes because a
lot of CI solutions depend on
whatever the application you're running to return a
1 or 0, or some other error, whether or not it was
successful. So, you want Docker Compose to do that as well.
The trick with Docker Compose is that when you just do a
docker compose up, it's running lots of different
containers for you. It doesn't know if one of them fails,
what you want it to do. Does it exit 1
for an error if just one container has a problem and the
other ones are all fine?
That could be a little confusing, but there's a solution.
Inside of Docker Compose options when you run that command,
use the --exit-code-from
and that will tell Docker Compose which container
you're really testing right now, so that it will monitor
that one and then return the proper error codes for that
specific container.
Of course, it will be used in the depends on that you
learned about earlier. It'll be using that to make sure
that all the other containers that it depends on are
started up before it runs the one you really want to test.
If you're using Docker Hub, Docker Hub is a lightweight CI
solution. It doesn't have all the bells and whistles of a
fancy, full feature Continuous Integration platform,
but it does work. If you're using something like Bitbucket
or GitHub, you can have those send webhooks over
to Docker Hub to automatically build your images for every
commit of specific branches, or all branches,
or some custom config in between.
Docker Hub has its own functionality for
running Docker Compose files to do specific testing,
as well as just the testing you do inside a build.
What you get at the end here is a really nice,
free little CI system for open source.
Once you go more advanced, you're probably going to want to
use something like Codeship or Travis CI, or
your own built system like Jenkins,
or Drone, or Go CI.
There's just so many of them out there, but that's really
up to you.
Docker Hub is obviously free and you know I talk about it
in my other courses.
I've put some links in here for you to check out that
solution specifically and how you can do testing
and build stage testing inside of Docker Hub,
coming out of public Get repos like GitHub
and Bitbucket.
A part of these tips, I want to talk about image tagging,
especially if you're new to production image tagging
because it's going to be a little different than the
casual, just building things on my own,
on my own little box here.
The latest is not always latest.
So, you can go and read some resources I've linked in this
lecture, but the latest tag is the default
tag, but there's nothing really special about it.
It doesn't guarantee the latest.
It doesn't certainly mean that you always get the latest
commit. That's really up to you and how you build out
your workflow. If you're using Docker official images
from Docker Hub, the latest is,
as I've always seen it, set to the latest
stable version of that app.
But, that's just by convention.
That is how Docker, and the teams running those
applications, that's how they set it up.
That doesn't mean that Docker inherently understands what
latest really is. It just knows that that's what it's going
to try to use if you don't specify a tag.
Due to that, and various reasons around
making it really difficult if you're always using the same
tag to know what you're truly running on your servers, most
of us have all come to the conclusion that you just
shouldn't use latest on servers.
It's fine to have latest, or maybe even branch
tags for specific branches, just for the convenience
of humans in your team to be able to download images and
run them and know that they have the latest commits.
But, I would not use those tags in production.
Basically, the golden rule here is if it's going run on a
server, the tag can never be used twice.
That means you're going to have to learn how to tag your
images on your Continuous Integration and build platforms
using things like date/time stamps,
or Git commits, which tends to be people's favorite
since you're building and committing in Git.
Why not use that same commit ID as a tag?
You can always go back later and then use Simverse
(sim-vert?) tags to specially label releases
of other tags. You know, because an image can have many
tags so when you're doing the automation, you tend
to want to have something that's not repeatable, like a Git
commit ID.
This is not some hard, fast rule that you always have to
follow, but every team that I've worked with
that has gone to production with images in Docker
has learned, the hard way, that they definitely do not want
to reuse tags. It becomes really hard on servers
to determine exactly what you're running and to guarantee
that everything is running that exact same release
if the tag, itself, potentially could have been reused.